Title: The Performance of Open Source Applications
Date: 2012-06-27 13:46
Author: Greg Wilson
Category: Uncategorized

We are pleased to announce that we are starting work on a third book in
this series, which will be titled *The Performance of Open Source
Applications*. Each chapter will discuss a performance issue in a real
open source systemâ€”it could be an over-the-shoulder view of how a
performance problem was fixed, a discussion of how design decisions
affected performance in a particular application, or something else
along those lines. Each entry will be 12-15 pages long, and we hope to
have first drafts by the end of October so that we can publish the book
in Spring 2013. As with AOSA, royalties will go to Amnesty International
and the book will be available for free online under a Creative Commons
license. If you are interested in participating, please contact us at
<posabook@gmail.com>.

Why performance rather than architecture? Because it's something that
every programmer has to deal with eventually, but which is usually left
out of their education. The last general book on making programs fast
that we know of was Jon Louis Bentley's *[Writing Efficient
Programs][]*, which was published thirty years ago. There have been lots
of more specialized books since (we're particularly fond of Steve
Souders' *[High Performance Web Sites][]* and *[Even Faster Web
Sites][]*, and of John Lakos's *[Large-Scale C++ Software Design][]*),
but we think the time is right for something that touches on everything
from squeezing the last few cycles out of every precious milliwat in an
embedded sensor to maximizing throughput of large-scale e-commerce
applications. We hope you'll think so too, and we look forward to
hearing from you.

  [Writing Efficient Programs]: http://www.amazon.com/Writing-Efficient-Programs-Prentice-Hall-Software/dp/0139702512/
  [High Performance Web Sites]: http://www.amazon.com/High-Performance-Web-Sites-Essential/dp/0596529309/
  [Even Faster Web Sites]: http://www.amazon.com/Even-Faster-Web-Sites-Performance/dp/0596522304/
  [Large-Scale C++ Software Design]: http://www.amazon.com/Large-Scale-Software-Design-John-Lakos/dp/0201633620/
